---
title: Emily Dundas Oke
subtitle: Massy Books
order: 2
blurb: "Emily Dundas Oke wears many hats. She is the curator of Massy Arts Society, and the media manager of Massy Books, an Indigenous owned and operated bookstore located at 229 East Georgia Street. She is also the Arts Editor and Community Engagement Coordinator with the Capilano Review, and a coorganizer of the “Indigenous Brilliance” reading and performance series. Emily chats with Chinatown Today about Indigenous ways of knowing outside of colonial thought, and how art can act as resistance against the all-consuming machine that is late stage capitalism. On a lighter, and perhaps more utilitarian note, Emily also reminds us that if we look under the right lens, even the flower patterns on toilet paper can become a source of artistic inspiration. You can follow Massy on Instagram @massybooks and @massyartssociety."
img: ""
---

**CT:** Can you tell us a bit about who you are and what you do?

**E:** I am Emily Dundas Oke, I am Cree, Métis, and Scottish. I grew up mostly in Secwepemcúl̓ecw, the unceded territories of the Secwepemc people. I moved to Vancouver, which is Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-waututh territories, two years ago. Since moving there, I’ve found a very welcoming community of creatives in the visual arts. Because there’s such a beautiful connection between visual arts and creative writing communities in Vancouver, I’ve also been welcomed into literary spaces over the last year and a half, predominantly through my work in galleries, but also through the art collective Indigenous Brilliance which organizes a reading and performance series. I began organizing within the community with Patricia, the owner of Massy Books, about a year and a half ago. Patricia and Métis/Icelandic poet Jónína Kirton began the Indigenous Brilliance Reading Series, which is a collaboration between Massy Books and Room Magazine. From there, Patricia invited me to work for Massy Books as well as the Massy Arts Society. I spend most of my time in writing and visual arts spaces. I find there are a lot of folks in Vancouver who value collaboration in the same way I do. It’s a space where people are always trying new endeavours together, so I’m really grateful for that.

**CT:** Why is Chinatown as a space special to you?

**E:** I think as an Indigenous person who’s never lived on territories I could call my own, I recognize that in a certain sense, I enact displacement. There’s also the histories of racialized peoples in Canada intersecting with one another, and I think an alliance between these communities through anti-colonial work is a necessary way forward to seek justice. Chinatown is a space that asks you to really question your own political opinions, and asks you to enact them as well. I’m still learning what it means to be anti-oppressive in this space, which I think is not just being a good neighbour, but also being cognizant of our role in occupation. On the more aesthetic and day-to-day realities side, it’s a place that has a really special history. I think we recognize that the history needs to be maintained, so it asks us to be thoughtful as we find a nice balance between holding on to the old while also making space for new things to emerge.

**CT:** What does resilience mean to you?

**E:** I’ve seen companies that are not Indigenous owned slap resilience as a logo on shirts to sell to Indigenous people, and that’s kind of funny to me. I find that resilience is used in marketing quite a lot, which has changed how I view the word and how it’s used.

## Someone had pointed out to me that resilience isn’t always the best term, because all it means is that they can still knock us down and we’ll still be standing. In this situation, is it better to focus on the person who can withstand these forms of violence,or should we be focused more on resurgence, as a coming back and moving away from that which asks people to be resilient?

It’s only in places of harm where people need to practice resilience. I’d rather move away from the harm and build better places. Maybe that’s what people mean when they say resilience, which is not a necessary toughness, but the ability to come back. In some sense, I view resilience as the old ways still coming to life. Sometimes that means they change, and they’re fluid, but that oldness is still present. I think that’s a beautiful thing, but I hope we’d have fewer systems that demand those people to harden and strengthen in “resilient” ways. The Hawaiian epistemologist Manulani Aluli Meyer speaks about Indigenous wisdom using holographic science, and one thing she talks about is the idea of the “old (k)new” instead of old and “new”. That’s really informed my idea of resilience and problematized the term for me. I think of it as something that’s old and passed down, and continues to come into being, but is always fluid.

**CT:** It’s interesting to think through how these very intangible things are always forced to work through capitalism, and how it often ends up creating more barriers for the people it’s supposed to be helping. What has been your biggest concern in 2020?

**E:** The thing that keeps me up at night is that 2020 has been shaped by all these huge tumultuous events and happenings that are shaking a lot of people, and has made the most vulnerable even further disenfranchised. My fear is that this is the beginning of an ongoing reality without a break. Earlier in the year, people were really worn down by land defence work. This was quickly followed by the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to continue to call for abolition and justice. And now, there’s the huge climate catastrophe. My fear is that this is only the beginning of a continual, rolling crisis. Most of my fears in the past that come to mind have been personal fears, but this is a collective fear. If it’s inescapable, then that’s terrifying to me.

**CT:** How have you been working through these fears and anxieties?

**E:** I’m fortunate and privileged to have a home that I can rest in. I find that with the need to limit the number of people I see on a daily basis, I’ve become much more intentional about the quality and intensity of my relationships and developing explicit modes of care. Just having things to do is important. I started my position with Massy Books the week that the province shut down, and having income and being involved in the outside world instead of just sinking into my own head has been a necessity. Being able to see that things can still happen in some small ways has been important. My mom also got a puppy before COVID-19, and I’ve been very present with his upbringing. I honestly think he’s gotten everybody through this time. I also spend time outside with the water and with the land, which has been necessary.

**CT:** Can you tell us a bit more about Massy Books and your role with Massy?

**E:** Massy Books is an Indigenous owned bookstore that’s been in Chinatown for about three years. Our founding principles are centred around community activity and community care, and we hope to facilitate new collaborations and new connections in creative communities and in the world. Prior to COVID-19, we would have readings multiple times a week and host other events. There’s also an art gallery upstairs, and we formalized an arts society last year. There’s Massy Books, which is the for-profit bookstore, but there’s also Massy Arts Society, where I’m the first official staff member. Currently we’re doing online programs, and I’m hoping to branch out into off-site public art, and have more visual arts collaborations. With the Massy Arts Society, I curate the exhibitions, and I’m implementing an administrative skeleton to a new arts society. I’m looking for ways to further expand our creative practices. I’m also the media manager for the bookstore.

{% contentImage "massyBooks_3of3.jpg", "" %}

**CT:** What are your considerations for what and who to include in the art space, and what is the goal of the art society?

**E:** I think I try to take a holistic approach that takes into consideration Massy Arts Society’s role. It’s a beautiful space, and because it is a smaller gallery, it allows more flexibility. It’s a space that allows artists to have more agency over what they do. I approach curating in a way such that Massy Arts Society is committed to artists who might otherwise face more barriers in accessing gallery spaces, and who are otherwise underrepresented. The professional art gallery world is so highly exclusive. In our space, I prioritize artists who might not be formally educated, who are emerging, who might be racialized, Indigenous, or have alternative practices. I think the exciting part of curating is thinking about connections across practices and mediums where connections are not assumed to be. I also think that, as someone who is privileged to be educated and to have figured out routes in the visual arts that other people don’t have access to, it’s my responsibility to share the resources that I have. Now that I have the knowledge that has allowed me to make a living for myself, it’s my responsibility to advocate for systems that better support artists.

**CT:** Even though it’s called Chinatown, the space has always been the site where marginalized groups lived. Chinatown was a pocket where Indigenous folks and a lot of people of colour were able to build community. As someone who’s working in an Indigenous space, what does it mean to you to be in Chinatown?

**E:** Chinatown is a space created because of exclusion elsewhere. It had historically been where a lot of people can find solace, but now it’s being threatened by gentrification. The limitation on Indigenous and racialized people to make a home or community is an ever present threat. In working in Chinatown, and in spending time and money in the community, I’m trying to ensure there’s still space for people, and trying to be respectful. As an Indigenous person, I think about how we can build kinship and relationship with the people whose land we’re on, and there are multiple layers in Chinatown. It’s unceded Indigenous territory, and yet there’s another community that also has an important relationship to the space. As someone who’s not of the host nation, and who doesn’t belong to the Chinese community, I think about how I can be respectful while being in that space. It’s a continual reminder to push back against imperial and colonial projects. I think the recent damage to the space through gentrification and the literal loss of life in the Downtown Eastside community is just a reminder that colonialism has shifted into different forms. We need to take a complex assertion of sovereignty and our rights to live, and to live happily. I predominantly work from home, and I go to Massy about one day a week. I don’t have a day-to-day relationship that the folks who live there and who live there would have. I have the privilege of choosing when I go and when I leave, and I’m not personally impacted by the challenges the people who live there would have to face.

**CT:** There is an idea in urban planning that argues that beautification of a neighbourhood signals that white bodies are moving into the space. In a lot of instances, this drives up real estate prices, and pushes marginalized groups from their own communities. What are your thoughts on art and gentrification?

**E:** I feel that art’s role in displacement is really problematic, and I’m still working through it. I got into art because of a personal need to create and to learn about colonialism through artistic practices, but while I don’t think the artistic practices themselves are problematic, artistic organizations and pursuits often inherit and perpetuate colonial systems. On one hand, I think the nonprofit world has horrible structures in place, but on the other hand, I came into my personhood through these structures, and learning alongside and from other artists has rounded my
perspective and understanding of what colonialism is and does.

## I think art is often utilized as a way to beautify a very violent machine, such that horrible companies can attempt to justify their existence through tokenizing creative practices or pursuits. I’m becoming more comfortable in speaking out against the utilization of artistic practices in dangerous ways.

At Massy’s art gallery, we strive to shape the space for the community, and not just for us, or folks who have the means. We’re working on the strong community connections that we have, so that our work is rooted in community and for the community.

**CT:** You mentioned you came into art as a personal practice. Are there ways in which your art manifests as a form of resilience or resurgence? How do those aspects come out in your art?

**E:** I got into visual arts predominantly because I loved ceramics. It wasn’t very much a conceptual pursuit. At the same time, I was studying philosophy, which in any given syllabus is full of staunchy old white dudes. A lot of my practice thinks about what it means to know and to carry stories within your body. I’m descended from white Europeans who enacted the violence of colonialism, as well as folks that lost a lot of their rights because they were Indigenous. Colonialism is a consuming machine. It wants to either destroy your knowledge or your right to a good life, or consume it in its own mechanics. I view deliberate confusion as resilience. For a few years now, I’ve been exploring how artists can communicate with one another, build kinships, and learn from one another, while being deliberately misunderstood or misrecognized so as to avoid being either consumed or destroyed in the process. I recognize it’s a complex practice I need to tread on lightly.

**CT:** Do you think art and culture are interchangeable in the context of colonial consumption?

**E:** I think art as culture sounds like art is too high on itself. I think culture is so much bigger than that, and art is one aspect of culture. Even defining what art is can be problematic, because it’s often done in a way where whiteness points to things and dictates whether something is art. But there are other concepts for what art might be. I think culture is a set of changing practices, and it is much more expansive than what I might consider art, or what our grant culture might determine to be art. I think I value when it’s fluid and changing.

**CT:** In what ways have the challenges of 2020 come out in your work?

**E:** I haven’t been so involved in my personal practice because of capacity more than anything else. I want to give my personal practice the space to come and go, rather than have that pressure of having to perform or to create. I typically lived in Vancouver, but because of COVID-19, I ended up spending two months at my parents’. I do a lot of floral beadwork, but all of my art supplies were in Vancouver. I noticed that the toilet paper had a perfect flower pattern on it, so I ended up beading through different materials that I had on hand. Lately, I’ve been working with an Australian artist, Marlaina Read. She’s an artist who typically researches traditional fishing techniques and ecology, and her art practice is closely tied to local species as well as the water. COVID-19 has meant she is no longer able to go to the sea, where her artistic practice is rooted. Instead, there are webcams setup around beaches which follow seals, so she’s thinking through how we related to these species through imperialism and now through the result of the climate catastrophe, and our encroachment on these species and its repercussions. COVID-19 has asked me to collaborate with people who are further away and to think through our relationship to other species a lot more in my art practice. Previously I’ve been thinking through how to relate to my ancestors through these lands I’ve never been to, and now I’m doing a 2020 version of that.

{% contentImage "massyBooks_1of3.jpg", "" %}

**CT:** 2020 has been an opportunity to create space for social change, and some of the larger conversations have been around Black Lives Matter and what’s happening locally in the Downtown Eastside because of the opioid overdose crisis and homelessness. Because Massy is on the peripheries of where Hogan’s Alley used to be and close to the Downtown Eastside, what does it mean to occupy this space at this particular time?

**E:** There’s undeniable activity around Hogan’s Alley earlier this year, and it was very present in our day to day. It was also a necessary call to action for Massy as well, to leverage resources to help reclaim that space and to bring visibility to the histories as well as the present communities that are shaped by what happened at Hogan’s Alley. There needs to be safety resources made available for those folks in the Downtown Eastside for the pandemic. In Indigenous Brilliance, we have a lot of conversations around racial justice and how to put an end to anti-Black violence in Indigenous organizing circles. There’s a lot of anti-Black and anti-Asian racism in Indigenous communities, and it’s important to recognize that even though Indigneous folks have faced a lot of violence and discrimination from the state, we’ve also enacted various forms of violence. We’ve had a lot of conversations about what is long, slow work, and what is quick work that we can do now. We’re taking our best guesses at what the best course of action is, and we’re bound to mess up, but I hope that we’re putting things in place so that we’re more accountable to different communities.

**CT:** Can you tell us more about the short and longer term goals at Massy and how you’re working through them?

**E:** One thing I really value about working at Massy is that Patricia is particularly responsive and open to suggestions or incorporating new information as it surfaces. As soon as COVID-19 happened, she was aware of various services that exist for people who experience different realities such as gendered violence to cope with COVID-19, and we strategized on how to get this information out to folks who might benefit from it. I think making these quick changes is how you achieve your long-term goal. A lot of the other spaces I’ve worked in didn’t have long-term goals that were as clear as they could be, and I think that when your long-term goals aren’t clear, like figuring out what it means to be in good relations with host nations, you end up stalling on things like how to do a land acknowledgement. But your relationship with the host nation changes all the time, and it’s really a question about how to build relationships in the day-to-day. Patricia has a very clear long-term goal that’s more about how Massy fits into the larger narrative from this particular part of the world.

{% contentImage "massyBooks_2of3.jpg", "" %}

**CT:** Are there other ways in which Massy has had to change its practices because of COVID-19?

**E:** We’ve gone through a number of changes to cope with the realities of COVID-19. For safety reasons, we closed our storefront in mid-March. We started doing deliveries and hired local people who had recently lost their jobs as delivery drivers. We started offering reduced shipping rates,and since then, our online sales have remained really high. There are a lot of folks who are supporting us throughout this time. We recognize that we’re not the only bookstore that had to radically change everything overnight, so we partnered with some other bookstores on a few initiatives. In June, when a lot of people were waking up to racial inequities, violence, as well as Black resilience and brilliance, our online orders skyrocketed around the protests surrounding George Floyd’s murder. It’s heartening to know that these titles which discuss tumultuous histories, that Massy had always prioritized bringing in, are finally in the spotlight. It’s good to know that people are doing the work. In my job with Massy Arts Society, this move away from physical spaces has really pushed us to think about accessibility in the arts, and we’ve seen more conversations about it in the last few years. COVID-19 has really pushed us to do the work that we’ve been thinking of doing, and to consider what it means to access visual art spaces in a number of ways.

**CT:** It’s been a challenge having to rethink our day-to-day practices, but it is also really cool to see how creative people can be with their artistic practices. Has there been an activity, recipe, or practice that has helped you get through these times?

**E:** Walking the dog has been the biggest joy. I feel like we’ve been in COVID-19 for so long now that these things just seem like my routine, and it’s hard to think about what I wasn’t doing before. I’ve been having lots more phone calls, still trying to find time to go outside to remind myself that I have a physical body. I’ve been trying to spend time with bodies of water. That’s what’s been helping me get through. Speaking of how COVID-19 has changed things, I want to emphasize how much I appreciate the people who have reached out to Massy, or to the writers and artists we’ve partnered with who have been so open to venture down routes with us. It’s been a joy, because there have been lots of folks who have made wonderful things happen in situations that they didn’t choose to confront, not being able to gather, for example. There’s been a lot of willingness to be explorative and experimental from the artists and writers we’ve partnered with, and I really value that. Our role has always been to create and hold space, and anything we’ve been able to do has been because of folks who have reached out or who have agreed to work with us.
